Kipchoge, Bro O’Connell and Kip Keino honoured in Principality of Monaco during World Athletics Gala.
For a country mired in divisive politics, it was ironic that the athletics world on Saturday night in Monaco was united, and rightly so, to look up to Kenya to breathe life into a sport admittedly in need of honest souls and self-renewal.In chilly and rainy night in the French Riviera, Kenya stood head and shoulders above the rest yet remained humble when the peerless Eliud Kipchoge was named the Male Athlete of the Year and later said his sub-two hour feat in Vienna on October 12 was for humanity.To say the night belonged to Kenya may be an understatement. For, World Athletics President Sebastian Coe not only extolled Kipchoge’s endeavours, but paid tribute to women marathon record holder Brigid Kosgei and awarded the selfless Kenyan athletics coach Brother Colm O’Connel for his service to the sport. And just two nights before, the man considered the father of Kenyan athletics Kipchoge Keino was also recognized for his distinguished service to the sport. It was, however, Kipchoge’s installation as the Male Athlete of the Year, for the second year running, that completed a remarkable night for Kenya. “Our marathoners had a strong season but one extra-ordinary weekend last month with two new records set by Brigid Kosgei in Chicago and of course Eliud Kipchoge’s sub-two in Vienna, which quite literally had the world talking and the whole of Kenya dancing in the streets.” In an emotional speech inside the Grimaldi Forum, Coe struck a chord many must be feeling of Kipchoge’s awe-inspiring feat saying, “it was actually compelling spectacle,” which “connected the world to our sport in an extraordinary way.” He added: “Now that this physiological barrier has been broken, let us see how long for the record to fall in a competitive marathon. Cabinet Secretary of Sport Amb. Amina Mohamed and Sports PS Amb Kirimi Kaberia, who were in Monaco as the historic chapter in Kenya’s sports was written, paid tribute to indomitable spirit of the Kenyan athletes. “We have come away with two wonderful acknowledgements for everything we have achieved and all the work we have done. Brother Colm has received his for the wonderful 43 years of service to our country to our young people, to our athletes and we are so grateful to him,” she said. She added: “We are also extremely
proud of Eliud Kipchoge. We congratulate him, we want to thank him for what he has done. We want to appreciate where he has put the image of the country.” Sports PS Kaberia said: “It is a wonderful time even being next to a legend like Brother Colm. Seeing what happened with Eliud and even getting the nomination of Brigid, that was in itself incredible. Kenya was all over the place. In every shot they were showing there was a Kenyan, there was Kenyan flag and you know what, if there was any other powerhouse I want to know which one it is if it is not Kenya.”